A quarter of the country's nightclubs have shut down because of falling trade and fees for late opening.
A study of the licensed trade has found 130 clubs have closed their doors for good in the last three years.
Barry O'Sullivan, chief executive of the Irish Nightclub Industry Association (INIA), claimed the closures have cost 600 jobs.
"Knowing our industry and thanks to the survey that's about 2,500 part-time jobs in reality," he said.
The INIA said the number of nightclubs dropped from 430 to 300 in the three years to 2010 and the loss to business has been estimated at €54m.
The figures were revealed on the back of an Aviva Health Insurance survey which found Irish drinkers are spending about €2,000 a year on alcohol.
Mr O'Sullivan said a €410 fee charged for every night a club opens is killing jobs and damaging late night economy and tourism.
The former boss of Club M in Dublin's Temple Bar said that unless the price of special exemption orders is cut dozens more nightclubs will close, further damaging local employment.
So, how is the studying going in your house? Here we are in the middle of the Easter holidays and I'm guessing that if this is an exam year 
for your son or daughter then the stress levels in the house are probably quite high.
The results from any mocks are well in and the amount of work that your son or daughter needs to do should now be clear to everyone.
The reality is that we parents often worry more about the work that needs to be done than our teenagers do.
We will all have certain expectations for how our teenagers should perform in their exams. When our expectations of how well they will do match with their expectations, then there is likely to be some level of harmony in the house.
Unfortunately, it is regularly the case that our expectations of how our teenagers will do don't match their expectations. If our expectations are too high.


If our expectations are too low then they may equally feel unmotivated because they believe nobody cares how they do in the exams.
Like in so many parenting situations, then, we must find balance -- between what we expect and what is genuinely attainable for our son or daughter.
Research demonstrates a very clear link between the level of stress that we experience and our performance at different tasks. That research suggests that we need a little bit of stress to perform well.
How much stress is the right amount will vary from student to student. Because every person has their own tolerance for stress, some youngsters will be at their optimum when the deadline for the exams is virtually 
upon them and everyone's expectations are high. Others need a much more low-key approach to avoid being overwhelmed.
Understanding what causes exam stress, and understanding how that stress impacts on your son or daughter, will help you to guide and support them in the final build-up to the start of June.
There are three main reasons why exams are stressful for teenagers. The first reason is that they can worry about something that is unknown. This is called an anticipatory anxiety.
When we don't know what to expect we can create ideas, expectations and anticipations in our minds. Sometimes these might be positive, other times they may be negative. If they are negative then we can come to dread the anticipated event.
The second reason for exam stress is a fear of failure. If your expectations, or those of others, are very high then this can really pressure your son or daughter who will probably not want to disappoint you.
Equally, by the time of the Leaving Certificate many students have a clearer idea of what they want to do after school and so they are probably aiming to achieve a certain result for themselves to give them those college choices. 
This means that they might be putting undue pressure on themselves. The third reason for exam stress is related to the volume of work to be covered. The curriculum can be vast and depending on how methodical students are (or have been!) 
in their preparation they can reach that point of feeling overwhelmed and under-prepared. Panic, at not getting the course covered or revised, can set in.
No matter what the source of the stress and anxiety the experience of it will be the same. Essentially, stress is a very physical experience. Adrenaline gets released when we get stressed and this puts our heart rate up, 
increases the rate of our breathing and leads to muscle tension or that feeling of a knotted-up stomach.

Once our bodies start feeling stressed, it will impact on our mood and our thinking and the whole experience becomes a bit circular. The more we worry the more stressed we feel.
Dealing with the anxiety can involve a number of approaches. Your first step is to try to help your teenager work out the source of their stress.
If it's fear of failure, it may be possible to help them lower or clarify their expectations so that they feel more able to achieve what they then hope to get. Whatever about their own expectations it is really not helpful for you to put unnecessary pressure on them.
If it is fear of the unknown then practice with past exam papers will lower that anxiety.
If the task of preparing and studying is overwhelming then between now and the exams you can help your son or daughter to break down what needs to be achieved so that they have clear targets for what to cover each week.
Creating a study plan (essentially a big list of topics to be revised) is a good idea because once it is all written down it can be very reinforcing to put a line through what has been done and they can see their progress building.
One powerful element that motivates teenagers to apply themselves is, as mentioned, their own internal desire to do well and to achieve. If your son or daughter doesn't have a goal or a realistic plan for what they would like to do after school then it can be really hard to get stuck into study.
Encourage them to remember that they are studying because they want to achieve some (or all!) of their potential, not because anybody else is studying or not.
For some students, however 'what's the point?' is often their refrain when you try to help them focus or (as they might see it) nag them to study.

The only real point that I can ever see is that education and exam results give them choices that they might not otherwise have. Because there is no tangible goal, however, even this may not be motivating.
So, contrary to what I said earlier, if your son or daughter has no internal motivation to apply themselves then I do recommend that you do your version of 'nag'; if internal motivation is lacking then you have to provide some external motivation.
This means you might have to keep reminding them to study, to work, or to think ahead. Use your experience of the world to demonstrate to them that better results matter.

You may not necessarily get them to the peak of their potential but even if they take in a bit more knowledge before the exam it will stand them in good stead.
This is tough work for parents, and you will probably feel unappreciated for all of your efforts to motivate them, so mind yourself with some time off or some space to vent to friends or family.
Hopefully, however, your teenager sees some value in the exams and so then your aim is to make sure that they are as efficient as possible in their study techniques.
We know that 20 minutes is about the maximum attention span of most adults. So it is realistic for your teenager to plan for a series of 15-minute study periods with a five-minute break after each 15 minutes studying. This way they will get a very focused 45 minutes of study in every hour.
If they stay at the subject for 15 minutes they can then reward themselves with checking their texts, updating their facebook or whatever they want for the few minutes before launching off again.
very five or six study periods they should take a longer break and make a cup of tea, or go for a quick walk or have a snack.
Suggest to them that they reward themselves at the end of a day studying too; perhaps by treating themselves to something nice like a bath, a good book, some uninterrupted time on the computer, TV or games console, a long phone call to a friend.
Exercise and diet are also really important to help them feel more in control of their anxiety and stress. This is the one area that parents can be very helpful as we can direct our energies, usefully, to minding our teenagers with cups of tea and wholesome food.

Eating well and regularly and getting outdoors or staying involved with sports will also counteract the negative physical effect of the stress and improve their mood.
Sleeping is also very important. Late-night studying doesn't give the body a chance to recover and also makes it hard for the brain to switch off when they do go to bed.
State exams are a big deal and because of that they will probably lead to an appropriate and understandable amount of anxiety amongst our teenagers. The most important thing we can do is to avoid panicking ourselves.
If we seem grounded and confident it will go a long way to helping them to stay calm and on track.
The INIA will meet Justice Minister Alan Shatter in June to put their cases for the cut in fees.
"The feedback from backbenchers is that they are in the mood for positive change - if it makes sense and it's logical and if there's a good argument for job retention they will look at it," Mr O'Sullivan said.
"I think we tick all those boxes."
The INIA report by Anthony Foley from Dublin City University's business school found that in 2007 nightclubs were open for an average of 4.2 nights a week but this fell to 2.7 last year.
The group claimed that cutting fees for late opening to €200 could create 330 full time jobs.
The report found that a large nightclub operating 300 nights a year and trading 18 hours a week will pay €148,000 for late opening. It said this contrasts with €3,805 for publicans to trade 90 hours a week, or €1,500 for off-licences to open 78.5 hours a week.
"The reduced fee would also allow nightclubs to operate additional nights, generating further income and tax flow to the exchequer. This would neutralise any loss to the State from the reduced fee," Mr O'Sullivan said.
The INIA said an immediate cut in the fee would cost the government approximately €12.2m.
"This reduction will keep people in employment, and would boost night-time economies and our tourist offering throughout the country," Mr O'Sullivan said.
"I am calling on the new government to introduce this measure as an important first-step in boosting the wider hospitality industry - that remains a key sector of the national economy."
THE UK business of Quinn Insurance is the main reason losses reached €600m for 2009, the company's accounts due to be released shortly will state.
Quinn Insurance, now in administration, will shortly have to publish two sets of accounts, covering calendar years 2009 and 2010. The Irish Independent understands both will show large net losses, €600m for 2009 and €120m for 2010.
The 2009 results will be the worst, with losses caused by Quinn's move into the UK market cited as the key factor.

The administrators were only appointed in March 2010, but despite this large losses on the UK have been included in the 2009 financial statements.
The administrators will blame the UK insurance business for the losses, stating that the business was hugely loss- making. Also, to exit from the various business lines meant Quinn Insurance had to crystallise additional losses. 
Quinn was particularly active in the UK solicitor's indemnity market. Investments losses will also play a part.
The 2009 results will also include a number of write-downs on the assets of a related property company. Both sets of accounts were reviewed by several actuarial firms.
The last set of accounts for Quinn Insurance -- now the subject of a bid from Anglo Irish and Liberty Mutual -- showed a retained loss of €125m.
Last night however, the Quinn family said it was inevitable large losses would be incurred once the administrators moved in last year.
"Since their appointment, the administrators have repeatedly confirmed to the High Court and publicly that they had turned the company into profit and that there were sufficient funds in the company to pay all its 
claims and that there would be no call on the Insurance Compensation Fund,'' said a Quinn family statement.
For their part the administrators declined to comment, but have previously talked about stabilising the firm on an operating basis, but one-off charges have pushed the business into losses, they have said.
In 2008 the company had claims outstanding of over €1bn.